---
title: Going back to Japanese!
date: 2024-04-27
categories:
    - personal
tags:
    - language
draft: true
---
I spent a long time trying to learn Japanese, but at one point during the summer and this past academic year I really slacked on grammar. I had plenty of reasons to take a step back from it -- I had a lot going on in my personal life which prevented me from having any mental capacity to focus. However, that isn't the case anymore, so I believe it's time for me to pick myself up by the bootstraps and go back to learning Japanese!

# Why I started learning Japanese
I have honestly wanted to learn Japanese for a very long time. I grew up watching anime, drawing anime, and consuming other pieces of Japanese pop-culture. This is mostly due in part to the internet, but also my interests just sort of lining up to Japanese hobbyists. I had always been interested in Japan and Japanese but felt a deep lingering resentment for myself for having this interest. This is mainly due to internet personalities at the time such as Filthy Frank (now Joji; is Japanese) talking about "weebs" which in turn, just turned into a manic frenzy and the word turned into a buzz word against anyone who had any interest in Japan. This obviously isn't the case now, and I feel like the word has been taken back somewhat, which is cool. It set me back a lot, but I still wanted to learn.

I remember spending a lot of time online during classes trying to figure out the "best way to learn X language" or "easiest language to learn for English native speaker" and would obviously never learn any of the languages. I was obsessed with the outcome of being able to speak multiple languages. It doesn't help that there were a lot of influencers on YouTube who were "polyglots" pushing the narrative that "Languages are easy to learn!" Although I do believe now that languages aren't necessarily *hard* to learn, there's a lot of nuance that's lost in the simple sentence that I will discuss another day. Since I was an insecure teen boy, I felt that every time I gave up, I was a weak pathetic failure who would amount to nothing. It's not a healthy mindset, and it too set me back a lot of years. But for some reason I kept finding myself back in front of a Japanese textbook, wanting to learn.

# The realization
From 2018-2022, most of the time I "tried" learning Japanese started and ended with me learning barely any hiragana and giving up. Then while taking Korean in my second year of university, I came to a realization. Learning any language is hard. Learning is hard. But it doesn't stop anyone, right? In any given language, a speaker will have their strengths and weaknesses. But does that make them less of a speaker? If a native Japanese speaker uses some incorrect colloquial grammar, does that make them less Japanese? To some radical extremists, yes. But in all actuality, no it doesn't. I looked back on learning Spanish and trying to learn German in my first year, and then looked online to see how other people learned Japanese. I would sometimes listen to them speak and think "damn their accent isn't that could. I could do better." but I wouldn't. Why? To protect the small fragile ego I had that would crumble if I *didn't learn*.

# Language is hard
Become proficient in any language is hard, especially for native English speakers. Most of the world's languages have some sort of connection to other neighbouring languages which makes communication easier for both. It also makes learning the other's language easier. This however isn't the case with English. It is a Germanic language which still has most of its roots and core, vocabulary from older Germanic languages, but we also developed differently because of the Normans, and then through hundreds of years we've ended up with what we speak now. We don't have any form of Swedish-Norwegian-Danish intelligibility. Thus, finding something that's as close as other languages are to each other is difficult. We're very isolated here, but that doesn't stop anyone. Why? Because who gives a shit how hard something is?

If you just say it out loud, you will come to the self-realization of how silly it sounds to try and find an "easier language to learn" that isn't the one you actually want to learn. You won't be learning the language you want to learn. Learning this other language will also be hard. It will probably be harder since you don't have the same deep interest/connection to the language too. There's an open secret that you can find anywhere on the internet that people don't like to think about because they probably have commitment issues: Learning a language takes time. If you aren't consistent even a little bit, you won't get anywhere. But it doesn't have to be that serious. People think that commitment is scary and time-consuming and grueling and boring. Sometimes, yeah. But not all the time. As long as you make the time to do it for any amount of time, that's better than nothing, and the improvement will come with time. As long as you enjoy it, it'll be more fun.

Think about it in the context of learning soccer for example. Say you were (like me) forced into playing soccer, but you didn't really want to play. Chances are you didn't get very good. You didn't want to learn, so internally you thought "since this isn't of interest to me, I will not learn this." But those who had a really good time with soccer got a lot better and had a lot more fun with it. They got better because they enjoyed it and didn't see it as a chore. Soccer either way is a difficult sport, but those who enjoyed it and had fun with it got a lot better. You didn't enjoy it and didn't have fun, so you didn't learn as well.

What I am trying to get at here is that a lot of the time the things that you see as difficult aren't actually that difficult. You probably have some other underlying issue/addiction/or dependency on something else which is restricting you from having fun and dedicating time to something you love. You can learn whatever you want and there's no one to stop you but you. It's hard, but it's fun! All skill acquisition is hard but fun if you enjoy it, and life's all about picking up these random skills to show off one day. The learning process is really rewarding, and trusting it is essential to having fun. Don't think about the final product, just learn! :)
