---
title: "My problem with textbooks"
date: 2024-05-27T09:19:18-04:00
categories:
    - personal
tags:
    - academics
draft: true
---
# Introduction
I love learning. I think that acquiring a new skill and feeling confident in it is the most satisfying feeling in the world. But the way we learn isn't perfect, far from it. I'd say that the way that we're taught to "learn" in school is really backwards and problematic in the long run. But that's not what this article it's about. My problem lies within one resource, a resource many of us would dread taking home (when textbooks used to be physical) for homework. I am of course talking about textbooks.

I don't hate textbooks, and this may be a problem with my own OCD and confidence in learning, but I think the way textbooks are distributed and sold now is pretty bad. I am a strong believer in having free accessible education or learning materials for anyone. Growing up in Canada, your education is paid for from Primary -> Secondary (Elementary -> Highschool), but beyond that you have to start giving out the big bucks. Once you get into higher education, you have access to a plethora of really good free resources through your university's library. That's great! What isn't great is enrolling in a course, spending a premium on materials you'll only use for that specific course, not actually EVER using them, and then having to go through the trouble of selling them online. There are many instances where you have to buy a textbook, but only realize that the course isn't for you, leading you to going back to return it. This process isn't a big deal for most people, but god damn it I value my time. It's like placing a deposit fee on the education I am already paying thousands of dollars for when I am already financially struggling.

The easy answer to this is piracy, since that's what most people resort to anyways. Although I do agree with it, ethically it still rubs me the wrong way as I believe in paying people for the work that they do. Writers and academics aren't the highest-paid people, and depending on the field you're studying, they are most likely borderline underpaid. Being an academic researcher and developing new materials for others to learn from is costly, and other academics aren't paid to peer-review. You just have to get really lucky.

# FOSS Textbook

I'll leave some examples:
[learncpp.com](https://learncpp.com/)
